.\"
.\" $Id: bsmpseu.1,v 3.1 2003/02/27 17:11:31 kr Exp $
.\"

.TH bsmpseu 1 "Winter 2002/2003" "Konrad Rieck"
.SH NAME
bsmpseu \- pseudonymize records from audit trail files
.SH SYNOPSIS
bsmpseu
[
.I options
]
[
.I audit-trail-file...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION

bsmpseu allows you to pseudonymize records from audit trail files.
Personal data such as user IDs is replaced with pseudonyms, so
that the generated output doesn't reveal private information about the
system's users, but still preserves a maximum of integrity and consistency.
bsmpseu has been designed with efficiency and privacy in mind.

bsmpseu sequentially reads one or more input audit trail files and
writes the pseudonymized audit trail to standard output. The input and
output audit trail files can be in plain BSM audit or in 
.I zlib(3) 
/
.I gzip(1)
compressed format. bsmpseu pseudonymizes a 200MB audit trail file on 
a plain Sun Ultra 10 in 50 seconds and pseudonymizes and compresses
the same file within 8 minutes.

Depending on the type of information, the personal data is replaced by
random data, cleared/blanked or shifted by a random value. Details are
listed below.

.SS User IDs, Group IDs and Process IDs
User IDs, group IDs and process IDs are replaced with unique random values.
The same random value is mapped to the same ID to preserve the audit
context. 
.SS Pathnames 
Pathnames are matched against list of pathname prefixes. The suffix of a
matched pathname is replaced by unique random characters. The same
random characters are mapped to the same pathname suffix. E.g.
pathname 
.I /tmp/foo/bar 
matching the prefix 
.I /tmp/ 
is mapped to 
.I /tmp/Drs/g/T.
.SS Internet Addresses
Internet addresses beside the local addresses 
.I 0.0.0.0 
(IPv4) and 
.I 0::0 
(IPv6)
are replaced by random internet addresses within the range 
.I 60.0.0.0 
- 
.I 200.0.0.0. 
Private, local or public addresses will be treated the same. 
.SS Execution Arguments and Environment
Execution arguments and environment are overwritten with space characters.
Instead of using this option disable execution arguments and environment
using the 
.I auditconfig(1M).
.SS Timestamps
The timestamps of all audit records are shifted by a random value in order
to preserve temporal context within the audit trail. 

.SH OPTIONS
-d 
.I list
.RS
Pseudonymize pathnames that match one of the prefixes from the colon-separated
list. Trailing slashes are not appended to the prefixes.
[Default: /export/home/:/home/:/var/mail/:/tmp/:/var/tmp/]
.RE

-D
.RS
Don't pseudonymize pathnames.
.RE

-u 
.I min:max  
.RS
Pseudonymize user IDs using random values from the integer interval [
.I min
to
.I max
]. 
Default: 200 to 60000 uid. 
.RE

-U
.RS
Don't pseudonymize user IDs.
.RE

-g 
.I min:max  
.RS
Pseudonymize group IDs using random values from the integer interval [
.I min
to
.I max
]. 
Default: 10 to 60000 gid.
.RE

-G
.RS
Don't pseudonymize group IDs.
.RE

-p 
.I min:max  
.RS
Pseudonymize process IDs using random values from the integer interval [
.I min
to
.I max
]. Default: 500 to 65535 pid.
.RE

-P
.RS
Don't pseudonymize process IDs.
.RE

-s 
.I shift
.RS
Pseudonymize timestamps of audit records by shifting upto a maximum of seconds.
[Default: 604800 seconds]
.RE

-S
.RS
Don't pseudonymize timestamps of audit records.
.RE

-A
.RS
Don't pseudonymize internet (IPv4 and IPv6) addresses.
.RE

-E 
.RS
Don't pseudonymize execution arguments and execution environment.
.RE

-z
.RS
Compress output stream using 
.I zlib(3)
compress functions. This options slows down the pseudonymizing process.
.RE

-v
.RS
Display verbose information during pseudonymizing to standard error output.
.RE

-V
.RS
Display version information to standard error output.
.RE

-h
.RS
Display a help screen to standard error output.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1: The bsmpseu command.

This will pseudonymize the content of the specified audit files using the
default options and display the pseudonymized audit records in human-readable
form:

  % bsmpseu /export/audit/* | praudit

bsmpseu is able to generate compressed output using the -z options, but 
it is also able to read compressed input audit trail files, as shown
in the example below.

  % bsmpseu /export/audit/friday.bsm.gz > /tmp/audit.bsm

Often it is not useful to pseudonymize all data types in an audit trail file. 
The example below shows the use of the bsmpseu tool where the process IDs
and internet addresses are not pseudonymized.

  % bsmpseu -P -A /var/audit/audit.bsm > /tmp/audit.bsm

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bsmconv(1M),  praudit(1M),  auditreduce(1M),  audit.log(4), audit_class(4), 
audit_control(4), group(4), hosts(4), passwd(4), attributes(5)

